Day 20: Backup and Delete Azure Storage Blob Container:

The Nautilus DevOps team is currently engaged in a cleanup process, focusing on removing unnecessary data and services from their Azure environment. As part of the migration process, several resources were created for one-time use only, necessitating a cleanup effort to optimize their Azure environment.

A private blob container named nautilus-blob-2335 already exists in the East US region under storage account nautilusst1814.

1) Copy the contents of nautilus-blob-2335 blob container to the /opt directory on the azure-client host (the landing host once you load this lab).

2) Delete the blob container nautilus-blob-2335 from the storage account.



Use the below given Azure Credentials: (You can run the showcreds command on the azure-client host to retrieve these credentials)

Portal URL	https://portal.azure.com
Username	kk_lab_user_main-c9d87fa32e6f410e@azurefreekmlprod.onmicrosoft.com
Password	8$uy$579
Start Time	Mon Dec 15 04:38:56 UTC 2025
End Time	Mon Dec 15 05:38:56 UTC 2025

SOLUTION:

Good question — understanding the purpose is actually more important than just finishing the task 👍

🎯 Purpose of This Lab (What They Are Testing)

This lab is designed to test real-world DevOps + Cloud Operations skills, not just Azure syntax.

1️⃣ Data Migration & Backup Awareness

You are asked to:

Copy blob data first

Then delete the container

➡️ This checks that you understand:

Never delete cloud resources without backing up data

Safe migration / cleanup practices

2️⃣ Azure Storage Fundamentals

The lab verifies you know:

What a Storage Account is

What a Blob Container is

How blobs are stored and accessed

Difference between container vs blob

This is core Azure knowledge for any DevOps/Cloud role.

3️⃣ Least-Risk Cleanup Operations

The scenario mentions:

resources created for one-time use

This mirrors real production cases where:

Temporary environments are created

Must be cleaned up to:

Reduce cost

Reduce attack surface

Improve governance

They want to see you can:
✔ Identify unused resources
✔ Preserve required data
✔ Remove unnecessary services

4️⃣ CLI Automation Readiness

By using:

az storage blob download-batch
az storage container delete


They’re checking that you:

Prefer CLI over manual UI

Can perform repeatable & automatable tasks

Are ready for:

CI/CD pipelines

Scheduled cleanup jobs

Infrastructure automation

This aligns strongly with DevOps roles (like yours).

5️⃣ Security & Access Control Understanding

Because the container is private, the lab ensures you know:

You cannot access blobs anonymously

You must use:

Storage keys

Or managed identity

Or service principal

This tests secure access patterns.

6️⃣ Production-Safe Thinking (VERY IMPORTANT)

This lab silently tests:

Do you verify copy before deletion?

Do you understand irreversible actions?

Can you work carefully under time pressure?

In real jobs, one wrong delete = data loss.

🧠 In One Line (Exam Answer Style)

Purpose:
To validate the ability to safely migrate data, manage Azure Blob Storage using CLI, and clean up unused cloud resources following DevOps best practices.

💼 Why This Is Relevant for You (Personalized)

As a Junior DevOps Engineer working with CI/CD and cloud platforms:

This mirrors real cleanup jobs you’ll do in:

Azure

GCP

AWS

Same logic applies to:

S3 buckets

GCS buckets

Artifact storage

If you explain this lab in an interview, you’ll sound senior, not junior.

If you want, I can:

Turn this into an interview-ready explanation

Compare Azure Blob vs AWS S3

Show how to automate this via cron / pipeline

