4 Organize Jenkins Jobs with Folders:
xFusionCorp Industries' DevOps team aims to streamline the management of Jenkins jobs by organizing them into distinct folders based on their purpose. Complete the task following the provided requirements:



1.Access the Jenkins UI by clicking on the Jenkins button in the top bar. Log in using the credentials: username admin and password Adm!n321.

2. Create a new folder named Apache within the Jenkins UI.

3. Move the existing jobs httpd-php and services under the newly created Apache folder.

Note:

1. Ensure to install any required plugins and restart the Jenkins service if necessary. Opt for Restart Jenkins when installation is complete and no jobs are running on the plugin installation/update page.

2. Be aware that Jenkins UI may experience temporary unresponsiveness during the service restart. Refresh the UI page if needed.

3. Capture screenshots of your work for documentation and review purposes. Alternatively, utilize screen recording software like loom.com for detailed documentation and sharing.

please guide step by step and what purpose and what we get and also explain if there are any new terms.

SOLUTION:

Understanding Jenkins Folders
What are Jenkins Folders?

Folders are containers that help organize Jenkins jobs into logical groups

They create a hierarchical structure (like directories in a file system)

Each folder can contain jobs, other folders, and pipeline components

Benefits of Using Folders:

Better organization and navigation

Permission management at folder level

Reduced clutter on the main dashboard

Team-based separation of jobs

Step 1: Login to Jenkins
Access Jenkins UI: http://172.16.238.19:8080

Login with:

Username: theadmin

Password: Adm!n321

Step 2: Install Folder Plugin (If Not Already Installed)
The Folders plugin is usually installed by default, but let's verify:

Check if Folder Plugin is Available:

Go to "Manage Jenkins" → "Manage Plugins"

Go to "Installed" tab

Search for "Folders" plugin

If not installed, go to "Available" tab and install it

Install Folder Plugin (if needed):

In "Available" tab, search for "Folders"

Check the box and click "Install without restart"

If prompted to restart, select "Restart Jenkins when no jobs are running"

Step 3: Create Apache Folder
Navigate to Jenkins Dashboard

Click "New Item" on the left sidebar

Enter Folder Name:

Item name: Apache

Select "Folder" as the item type

Click "OK"

Configure Folder (Optional):

You can add description: "Folder for Apache-related jobs"

Configure folder-specific permissions if needed

Click "Save"

What happens: A new folder named "Apache" will appear on your Jenkins dashboard.

Step 4: Move Existing Jobs to Apache Folder
Method 1: Using Job Configuration
For each job (httpd-php and services):

Locate the Job on Jenkins dashboard

Click on the job name to open it

Click "Configure" on the left sidebar

Scroll to "Advanced Project Options":

Look for "Folder for this project" or "Move" option

Select the "Apache" folder from the dropdown

OR click "Move" button/link if available

Save the Configuration:

Click "Save"

The job will automatically move to the Apache folder

Method 2: Using Drag and Drop (if supported)
Go to Jenkins Dashboard

Drag the job (httpd-php or services)

Drop it onto the Apache folder

Method 3: Using Move Function
From Job Page:

Open the job (httpd-php or services)

Click "Move" from the left sidebar

Select "Apache" folder from the list

Click "Move"

Step 5: Verify the Organization
Go to Jenkins Dashboard

Click on "Apache" folder

Verify both jobs are inside:

httpd-php

services

Expected Result: Your Jenkins dashboard should now show:

Apache/ (folder)

httpd-php (job)

services (job)

Step 6: Test Folder Functionality
Access Jobs through Folder:

Click on "Apache" folder

Click on "httpd-php" job - it should open normally

Click on "services" job - it should open normally

Verify Build Capability:

Jobs should still build normally from within the folder

All configurations are preserved

Troubleshooting
If "Folder" option doesn't appear when creating new item:
bash
# Install Folders plugin via CLI
sudo java -jar /var/cache/jenkins/war/WEB-INF/jenkins-cli.jar -s http://localhost:8080/ -auth theadmin:Adm!n321 install-plugin cloudbees-folder -restart
If jobs don't move properly:
Refresh the Jenkins page

Check Jenkins logs: sudo tail -f /var/log/jenkins/jenkins.log

Try moving one job at a time

If permissions issues occur:
Ensure theadmin user has administer permissions

Check folder-level permissions in folder configuration

Important Notes:
Take screenshots of:

Folder creation process

Jobs before moving (on main dashboard)

Jobs after moving (inside Apache folder)

Folder structure view

Wait for any restarts to complete fully

Refresh the page if UI becomes unresponsive

Verify all job functionality is preserved after moving

What We Achieved:
Better Organization: All Apache-related jobs are grouped together

Easier Navigation: Cleaner dashboard with logical grouping

Scalability: Ready to add more Apache-related jobs in the future

Potential for Folder-level Security: Can set permissions at folder level later

This organization makes it much easier to manage and find specific jobs as your Jenkins instance grows with more projects and teams.


a

