Day 19: Attach IAM Policy to IAM User:
The Nautilus DevOps team has been creating a couple of services on AWS cloud. They have been breaking down the migration into smaller tasks, allowing for better control, risk mitigation, and optimization of resources throughout the migration process. Recently they came up with requirements mentioned below.

An IAM user named iamuser_rose and a policy named iampolicy_rose already exist. Attach the IAM policy iampolicy_rose to the IAM user iamuser_rose.



Use below given AWS Credentials: (You can run the showcreds command on aws-client host to retrieve these credentials)

Console URL	https://067458473202.signin.aws.amazon.com/console?region=us-east-1
Username	kk_labs_user_530334
Password	bXAHs1PhXivi
Start Time	Mon Dec 15 04:52:27 UTC 2025
End Time	Mon Dec 15 05:52:27 UTC 2025

Notes:

Create the resources only in us-east-1 region.

To display or hide the terminal of the AWS client machine, you can use the expand toggle button as shown below:

SOLUTION:
Using AWS CLI (Recommended for the Lab)
First, log in to the AWS CLI using the provided credentials on the aws-client host. You can then complete the task with a single command.

Step 1: Log in to AWS

bash
aws configure
You will be prompted to enter credentials. Use the provided Access Key ID and Secret Access Key from your lab session.

Step 2: Attach the Policy to the User
Once authenticated, run the following command. It uses the policy name directly, which the AWS CLI will resolve to its full Amazon Resource Name (ARN) for you .

bash
aws iam attach-user-policy --user-name iamuser_rose --policy-name iampolicy_rose
Using the AWS Management Console (UI)
If you prefer to use the web console, follow these steps:

Log in to the AWS Console:
Go to the Console URL provided in your lab (https://067458473202.signin.aws.amazon.com/console). Use the username kk_labs_user_530334 and password bXAHs1PhXivi .

Navigate to IAM Users:
In the Services menu or the search bar, find and open IAM (Identity and Access Management). In the left navigation pane, select Users .

Select the Target User:
From the list of users, click on the username iamuser_rose.

Navigate to Permissions:
In the user details page, go to the Permissions tab .

Attach the Policy:

Click the Add permissions button.

Choose Attach policies directly.

In the list of policies, search for iampolicy_rose.

Select the checkbox next to its name.

Click the Add permissions button at the bottom to confirm .

How to Verify the Task
To confirm the policy is attached, you can use the CLI or check the console.

Verify with CLI:

bash
aws iam list-attached-user-policies --user-name iamuser_rose
You should see iampolicy_rose in the output.

Verify in Console:
Return to the Permissions tab for iamuser_rose. The policy should be listed under the Permissions policies section.

I hope this helps you complete the task successfully. If you encounter any issues with the policy not being found, please let me know.

