The Nautilus DevOps team is strategizing the migration of a portion of their infrastructure to the AWS cloud. Recognizing the scale of this undertaking, they have opted to approach the migration in incremental steps rather than as a single massive transition. To achieve this, they have segmented large tasks into smaller, more manageable units. This granular approach enables the team to execute the migration in gradual phases, ensuring smoother implementation and minimizing disruption to ongoing operations. By breaking down the migration into smaller tasks, the Nautilus DevOps team can systematically progress through each stage, allowing for better control, risk mitigation, and optimization of resources throughout the migration process.

For this task, create a security group under default VPC with the following requirements:

Name of the security group is devops-sg.

The description must be Security group for Nautilus App Servers

Add the inbound rule of type HTTP, with port range of 80. Enter the source CIDR range of 0.0.0.0/0.

Add another inbound rule of type SSH, with port range of 22. Enter the source CIDR range of 0.0.0.0/0.



Use below given AWS Credentials: (You can run the showcreds command on aws-client host to retrieve these credentials)

Console URL	https://651872811359.signin.aws.amazon.com/console?region=us-east-1
Username	kk_labs_user_631354
Password	QM^hd@@8qIu^
Start Time	Thu Nov 27 04:28:38 UTC 2025
End Time	Thu Nov 27 05:28:38 UTC 2025

Notes:

Create the resources only in us-east-1 region.

To display or hide the terminal of the AWS client machine, you can use the expand toggle button as shown below:


SOLUTION:

🔒 Day 2 Lab: Creating an AWS Security Group
📖 Lab Explanation
Today, we're creating a Security Group - essentially a virtual firewall that controls inbound and outbound traffic for your AWS resources. This is crucial for securing your cloud infrastructure.

🔍 Key Terms Defined
Security Group
What: A virtual firewall that controls traffic to AWS resources

Purpose: Defines which network traffic is allowed to reach your instances

Stateful: If you allow inbound traffic, the response is automatically allowed outbound

VPC (Virtual Private Cloud)
What: Your own isolated virtual network in AWS

Default VPC: Automatically created in each AWS region for your account

CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing)
What: A method for allocating IP addresses

0.0.0.0/0: Represents all IP addresses (anywhere on the internet)

Inbound Rules
What: Rules controlling incoming traffic to your resources

Examples: HTTP (port 80), SSH (port 22), HTTPS (port 443)

🚀 Benefits & Why We Use Security Groups
🔒 Security Advantages
Instance-Level Firewall - protects individual resources

Flexible Rules - easily modify as your needs change

Default Deny - all traffic is blocked unless explicitly allowed

💡 Practical Benefits
Easy Management - apply same rules to multiple instances

Dynamic - can modify rules without restarting instances

Cost-Effective - no additional cost for security groups

🎯 Use Cases
Web Servers - allow HTTP/HTTPS traffic from internet

Application Servers - restrict access to specific sources

Database Servers - allow access only from application servers

Bastion Hosts - allow SSH access from specific IP ranges

🛠️ Step-by-Step Solution
Method: AWS Management Console
Login to AWS Console

bash
# Use the provided credentials:
URL: https://651872811359.signin.aws.amazon.com/console?region=us-east-1
Username: kk_labs_user_631354
Password: QM^hd@@8qIu^
Region: us-east-1 (VERIFY THIS!)
Navigate to VPC/EC2 Service

Go to Services → VPC or EC2

In left sidebar, find "Security" → "Security Groups"

Create Security Group

Click "Create security group"

Basic details:

Security group name: devops-sg

Description: Security group for Nautilus App Servers

VPC: Select default VPC

Configure Inbound Rules

Rule 1 - HTTP:

Type: HTTP

Port range: 80

Source: 0.0.0.0/0

Rule 2 - SSH:

Type: SSH

Port range: 22

Source: 0.0.0.0/0

Click "Add rule" for each

Outbound Rules (Leave as default)

Default allows all outbound traffic

Create Security Group

Click "Create security group"

Verify creation in the security groups list

📋 What We Created
Name: devops-sg

Description: Security group for Nautilus App Servers

Inbound Rules:

HTTP (port 80) from anywhere (0.0.0.0/0)

SSH (port 22) from anywhere (0.0.0.0/0)

⚠️ Security Notes
0.0.0.0/0 allows access from ANY IP address

In production, restrict SSH access to specific IP ranges

Consider adding HTTPS (port 443) for secure web traffic

🎉 Congratulations!
You've completed Day 2! You now have a security group ready to be attached to EC2 instances for web applications and remote management.

